>> Marcy Sutton: So
let's move on to our next topic.
We've talked about focus management in
two different ways with drop downs and
client side routing.
By using focus management and
sending focus to an area of the screen,
we move the user's focus there and
make Announcements.
So, that skip link that I sent focus to
should announce to a screen reader skip to
navigation when they land on it.
Sometimes you don't want
to move the user's focus.
Like maybe you're typing in a form and
there's no submit button because
it's slicker to just save, maybe it's
just Asynchronously saving to the server.
Well you don't want the user to worry
that they are gonna lose their work.
So you'd probably display
something like saved or
you've made changes like
CodePen will do that.
When you are typing and it will say
13 changes since your last save.
You wanna announce that message
to your screen reader and
the techniques to do that
is with Announcements.
Some other use cases would be
like if you had a Combobox, and
you are typing and
it's filtering a list of options.
We'll see an example of that in a second.
Things like Chat widgets,
like on Facebook.
They're a little Chat widget,
which there's multiple.
Which I heard a kind of funny
bug I'm going to tell you about.
That they had an Announcement on those
to say what time the last message had
been sent.
And it had kind of gone rogue cuz it was
saying like one message one minute ago,
two minutes ago, one minute ago just
like launching off these Announcements.
So you want to make sure you test them
with assistive technology running
because you might have no idea otherwise.
Because these Announcements only
affect assistive technology.
Which is why I touched on focus
management first because that impacts
everyone that uses a keyboard.
And we can do a lot with that,
especially for screen magnification.
If you send focus to an area,
your focused on it,
you're sent to that part of the screen.
But if I make an Announcement like a toast
notification elsewhere on the screen,
someone who's zoomed way in over here
won't necessarily see what's happening
on this side.
So you want to be sort of
subjective about how you do this.
I've also seen these
Announcements used for
title changes like instead of
the focus that we've just worked on.
So you can use it for various things,
I think the Asynchronous saving and
filtering is probably
the most recommended ways.
So to create these announcements you can
use ARIA in the Live Region portion.
So it's basically like
a Message command center and
there is two levels of importance.
Do you interrupt what the screen
reader is saying or do you wait.
And so those levels are indicated
in two different ways.
There's sort of two APIs you can use for
this.
So the role of status and role of alert.
I think there's a role of log as well.
The role of status is what we
call a polite announcement.
It will wait until everything is done
announcing before it says something.
Which is a bit more polite, good to wait,
not everything is an emergency.
Or as an alert is like hey, you need to
know this right now, like this is urgent.
And so, it's again kind of subjective,
so role of alert will do that.
You can also use the ARIA Live property.
So ARIA Live of polite or
ARIA Live of assertive.
I think ARIA Live of assertive
used to be called rude.
If you had to think of it that way,
it can be kinda rude.
But you can use either one of these.
Sometimes maybe if ARIA Live
isn't behaving right you can try
the role see if that changes things.
But those are pretty synonymous role
status and polite, role of alert and
assertive.
So an example that you can find out in
the wild is the Downshift component
by Kent C Dodds and open source community.
I've got an example here with a Star Wars
character filter, and I can tab into it.
I could type in these names of characters
and they get pulled back from this list.
And I'm going to fire up
Voiceover using cmd+F5.
Okay so I've got Voiceover running.
I'm gonna start typing.
>> Speaker 2: Six results are available.
Use up and down arrow keys to navigate.
Han Solo (1 of 6), Bastila Shan (2 of 6).
N for A, 18 results are available,
use up and down arrow keys to navigate.
Press Enter key, F5, VoiceOver off.
>> Marcy Sutton: So it's making those
announcements of how many items
are coming up.
And that information it's
not the label of the input.
Like my focus is there.
I don't wanna move your focus
because you're actively typing.
So this is a perfect use case for
an ARIA Live Region.
And Downshift does this pretty well.
It's open source, and so
if you ever find bugs and things.
This is a great way to create accessible
components is because we're all testing
in different browsers and
different assistive technologies, and
we can kinda crowd source that and
make one really great component.
And I think Downshift is
a good example of that.
So some tips of Live Regions, including
multiple Live Regions of a given level
can help sometimes when the screen reader
doesn't consider the content has changed.
And I guess a little more note
about how these APIs work is that
these are elements that when you append
text to them, It will just announce it.
So typically, they're visually hidden.
They're kind of put off screen.
And if you append text to them,
however means necessary in React maybe.
It's some state variable
that if it's truthy,
it'll output that's what
I'll play within a minute.
Maybe with vanilla JavaScript,
you just set its text content or
you append a child or some way to like
change the contents of these elements.
When the role of status or the ARIA Live,
those Regions are there when the page
loads, the children that you append to
them is what will actually get announced.
So you wouldn't like add an ARIA
role of status to an element
like while the user is interacting.
That's something that's always there
pulling for changes from load time.
So sometimes you might hit
these gotchas where it just for
whatever reason the content's the same and
the screen reader's trying to help you by
not repeating the same thing over again.
But maybe it's causing you issues.
Sometimes making an API or
a custom component where you have multiple
regions and you just kind of trade off,
that's a technique that I've seen used.
There's an example of this in
Almero Steyn's React ARIA Live component.
He took inspiration from an Angular
solution called ng-alley
that was an older component.
And that's just things that people
who are actively doing accessibility
testing have run into.
This is another area we're having
a site-level API to manage these
announcements might help so that you
have more control over what's happening.